uh so I'm here today at saster Europa to
talk about top 10 mistakes getting 100
million
and my qualifications for this is uh I
started off in engineering I was product
I was marketing I was sales and support
then I was a founding CEO at launch
shirkeley so the company started in 2014
and is now over 100 million in ARR uh my
jokes that I've always I kind of started
off in engineering and worked my way out
to the outer Realm of the company so my
my new role now is executive chair which
is super fun but I'm going to tell you
some lessons learned from when I was CEO
so launch directly if you haven't heard
of it is a feature management platform
we have over 4 000 customers worldwide
and nothing makes me happier than when I
go to a conference or event and somebody
says that you they use launch Darkly
um you know I started it because it was
something I was really passionate about
as a software engineer and product it
helps our customers release new features
migrate safely Target features use
experiment and also do quicker mobile
releases so if you're a customer thank
you and if you're not uh give it give it
a whirl and that's all that Jason will
allow me to say on that so thank you
um so a hundred million does not happen
overnight
uh so my job as a founding CEO was
number one to always make sure there was
enough money for the company
to set the vision for the company and
then to drive forward
and these sound really simple
but it wasn't
uh so 2014 to 2016 was this very slow
grind from zero to a million in ARR
the literal quote when I went to pitch
Josh Stein who ended up doing our a was
well you guys really grounded out huh
you know because he's looking at you
know our first month of selling we had
one customer our second month we had one
more customer so if you're accruing
customers at that rate it's a long grind
but then things started going faster
so the period I'm going to cover today
is from 1 to 100. I think there's a
whole nother talk I would love to give
on the zero to one but that's a
different phase
so my hope with the talk today is that
you learn something
uh I hope you laugh at a couple of my
jokes I hope you laugh at me and the
mistakes I've made
and I hope that if you're a founder or
working at a startup that it gives you
some recognition of here's some pitfalls
along the way uh either ones that you
might be about to make or ones that
you've already made and realized that
you were not alone
all right so with that I'm going to
start through the the 10 things that
were maybe mistakes
um the the first sounds really obvious
but if you're not making mistakes you're
not in a startup
you know if you're just doing the status
quo and doing the things that always
work you would still be at a big company
you know you'd be at Microsoft
uh
and I learned this phrase everything is
up and to the right if you zoom out
when after our series a things didn't go
so well
so we were an eight-person seed company
with really tight rhythm
and we got our series a we hired our
first VP of sales and he was this great
guy a wonderful pedigree had worked at
some you know really hot startups and he
said he really wanted to join lunch
directly
and you know I was like wow this guy is
amazing pedigree really passionate about
customers great references uh he joined
as our first VP of sales
and the issue was about after three
months he came to me and he said Edith
our customers developers and I said yeah
developers yeah developers love launcher
I love Developers
and he said you know developers are real
pain to sell to
what she's like well they're very
technical
they don't really like PowerPoint
they're very exacting
and they want the thing you know they
want a lot of proof points I'm like
these are my people I'm an engineer and
he's like I don't like selling to
developers and he he quit
um
great guy by the way uh he went on to
start his own company which I actually
Angel invested in so nothing to do with
him but more just there's this Persona
mismatch of
he didn't like selling the developers
and developers were a core audience and
there was nothing you could do to fix
that
so I had to very sheepishly kind of go
to my new board member and say Hey you
know all our forecasts for the year when
we said we're gonna go from one to five
million
uh we're gonna be lucky if we eke out
like 1.5 million you know because I got
to rebuild the sales team
and I was extremely nervous when I went
to Sally at this and what Josh said was
the perfect thing to me which was
everything is up to the right if you
zoom out because I said you know we're
not going to be up to the right for a
couple quarters because I have to
rebuild
and he was totally right we rebuilt the
sales team uh it turned out that the the
sales people we hired were great and
they started closing uh big deals
uh and you know one of them and then
both of them actually entered the
million dollar a year club which was
pretty fun
so the mistake I made
amazed being blinded by this guy with a
great pedigree without really digging
into whether he really cared about our
customers
uh on the other hand though one of the
sales people that we hired at the time
had never sold to developers before he'd
been a Twitter ad salesperson
and he turned out to be an amazing
salesperson because he just had so much
empathy for our customers and he never
talked down to them they loved him like
I went on a sales trip with him once
and I never seen this before
the customer gave him a present
I was like what yeah he's been such a
great salesperson cool
all right
uh I alluded to this before but if
you're a fast growing company there are
big changes every year
uh so if you go in from one to 100
million that means you're basically
doubling and tripling in size every
single year
and a lot of people are really
uncomfortable with that
uh what I always tried to do was to
persuade people at like hey this is a
fun adventure
and you're going to have fun but it's
going to be different
um a screw-up I did in the early days
again uh from the transition from seed
to a was after we closed our a round uh
we started hiring a lot more people
and also some of the people who had been
there from the seed days didn't really
like the new company because they said
like a 25 person company is actually a
lot different than eight which is true
so we had a fair amount of turnover uh I
I saw this as just kind of normal
turnover and wasn't really concerned
until we were trying to get our B
together
and I got this frantic phone call of why
is your turnover so high and I'm like
what what turn over what and they were
like what about this person this person
this person and every single person I
had a really good justification of why
uh it looked like that so what VCS do is
they'll have some poor associate look at
your LinkedIn
and look at people who have titles for
companies who are going in and out
and what had happened was we'd had some
contractors who we were placed with
full-time we'd had a summer intern who
was never meant to be permanent and then
we had a couple people who were a little
bit of a mishire
but what a VC looked at this they're
like what the hell is happening with
your turnover
um
so a change that I made immediately was
to pay a lot more attention to culture
uh we started doing uh culture amp
surveys uh just to get a pulse and I
also started doing a lot more skip
levels with the team uh skip level is
when you meet regularly with somebody
just kind of say hey what's up
and I think this really helped our
culture become a lot stronger and in
fact so that people started commenting
about how strong the culture was but it
was definitely a wake-up call for me
about if you don't pay attention to
culture culture will run away from you
uh revenue is funding uh so everybody
here I think is in some sort of startup
uh I if you didn't see Jason's talk
yesterday it was very eye-opening he
basically talked about the compression
and valuations
uh that it's harder and harder to raise
money and that you have to have more
Revenue
uh I think this is always good
to have Revenue uh you know because VCS
can be a little fickle in terms of what
they fund
but if you have Revenue you have a lot
more leeway about when you take in
investment and also by the way the VCS
like that because that that way they
know that you're a pro going concern
so I always try to pursue this path if
we had Revenue
uh this really helped me a couple times
when I completely screwed up the VC
pitch
um so a mistake I made was
VCS like to talk to you
that's not the mistake
and they'll try to lure you in and
they'll try to extract more and more
information from you
again in the in the A to B time frame
you know we were getting a lot of hits
from VCS who want to learn more about
the company
and they said you know come in you don't
have to have a deck just come in and
talk to the partners
and I was like okay
sure
and this was a huge mistake I went into
this what turned out to be a partner
meeting I was completely unprepared I
had looked at as kind of like a workshop
of I have some rough slides I'll give
you some feedback
they were looking at it as a pitch
meeting where they expected me to be on
polished convincing compelling
uh I was not
I had some rough drafts with slides I
was like what do you think about this or
like uh
um so the other funny thing you know
I'll just briefly tell you the story is
at the time I was back in DC to visit
one of our Washington DC to visit one of
our big customers
and for whatever reason my iPhone at the
time had wiped out all my contacts it
was as bad a iOS release
so I had no idea when somebody called me
who they were which was kind of
terrifying
um you know it's like is it a customer
is it a friend is it a VC is it a random
number
so this number calls me and I pick it up
and they're like hey and I'm like hey
and they're like how's it going I'm like
it's going good
me I'm trying to like figure out like is
this somebody trying to sell me car
insurance or what
and I'm like I'm in DC if it's a new
customer they're like oh yeah customers
are great
um
and then it turned out to be the VC that
I had gone into the the bad pitch
meeting with and he was calling to tell
me that they weren't going to fund
this was not great for me because I was
not prepared for this call
and uh I got off the phone I was like
I'm gonna do 10 times better in the next
pitch
so every time I went into pitch meeting
after that I was as prepared as I could
be
you know even if I didn't need to have a
deck I would have a deck ready I would
have my pitch ready I would have numbers
ready they never took it for granted
again that these were automatic yeses uh
always be prepared and also always have
the backup plan of Revenue
every time I got a little bit nervous
about VC funding I would try to close
more deals worked out
all right I alluded to this before when
I talked about changes
every single one of these phases of 1 5
10 20 and 50 million you're probably
going to be hiring completely different
people
uh the people you're hiring at one
million are the people that want to
build the machine
the people you're going to hire at 50
million are the people who want some
sort of machine that's already running
so really be careful about when you
interview people about what they
actually want
you know startup gets thrown around a
lot
and startup changes every single phase
so you might get somebody who thinks
they want to work at a startup what they
really want to work at is Google
um you know they were like oh a startup
Google they have free massages and free
bikes awesome you're like no uh actually
we're 15 people and the refrigerant
makes a ton of noise
so be careful about who you're hiring be
careful about their expectations and be
careful about the infrastructure that
they expect
uh again we had people who came in and
they just expected a lot and we're like
no we we want you to build that we don't
have that yet
which gets me kind of to
executive recruiting how many people
here use an executive recruiter
all right
so let me briefly explain what an exec a
good executive recruiter does a good
executive recruiter I call it like kind
of like a real estate agent or a
Matchmaker uh say you're in the market
for a new uh CMO
if you just put up a listing that says
you're looking for a CMO uh it's
probably not going to get a ton of
traction
uh you're either gonna get a lot of
random resumes
or people who are
just not really a good fit
uh so a good exec recruiter knows who's
in the market knows who's available
knows who maybe doesn't really want to
advertise that they're available but is
looking for a job
so the most recent search we did
actually this way uh was a GC at general
counsel and that was a really good fit
because they got what launch Darkly did
and confined a great candidate
however a bad executive a bad executive
recruiter can really torpedo you
um we had one executive recruiter who
got this great candidate
and I found out later that the candidate
almost didn't join the company because
of the high pressure tactics the
recruiter used
uh you know executive recruiter gets
paid when a candidate signs uh so their
their motivations are a little bit
different than yours
uh like so the executive recruiter was
telling the candidate they had to sign
within 24 hours or I would pull the
offer and I was like no I mean it's not
open for three weeks but if you need to
you know go talk to your partner spend
some time thinking about it of course
it's open
um so make sure that your executive
recruiter is lying with you on how they
close candidates
um another issue you could have with
exec recruiters is just them trying to
again Jam somebody in
uh a real issue is if they like say say
you have budgeted uh you know 150 000
pounds for a roll
and you're like this is about what we
think the market is and then they keep
bringing you candidates that are 250.
and it's just it's just not gonna work
you you got to have alignment
um so a good executive recruiter is
totally worth it uh a bad one is is not
uh the main reason an executive
recruiter is totally worth it is because
you need to fill that role which brings
the next one
uh get leverage I was guilty of
holding on to stuff way too long so many
times
uh so
we did not have a full-time Finance
person until our B round so up until our
B round I was still running all the
models of the spreadsheets
um in my mind this was not a huge
overhead
like I like Excel I like numbers I'm a
nerd it was taking me like a couple
hours a week to keep running the models
and I didn't see this as a huge overhead
in hindsight it was a big drag on the
org
uh those two hours that I was doing
these spreadsheets was two hours that I
could have been doing something else
and there's a lot of other things that a
full-time Finance person could be doing
that it just I just had no room to
squeeze it at all
uh
so as soon as you start growing
uh look at what you're spending time on
and see if you're really the best person
to keep doing it
uh again this thing something I was
guilty of was I didn't have an EA until
pretty late an executive assistant uh in
my mind it's like well it's not that
much time for me to schedule these
meetings you know I'll just fit it in
uh finally what happened was our then VP
of sales said Edith
I want you on the phone with customers
not trying to schedule your own entire
meetings
um that was a wake-up call to me like I
saw it as hey I could just get
everything done because I'm Superwoman
not hey super even Superwoman needs to
narrow her her scope a little bit so
that she can be more successful at that
so my advice to everybody is as soon as
you start progressing try to get
leverage wherever you can in your own
tasks
and don't hang on to stuff for too late
all right pricing
uh it's funny so uh pricing is one of
those things that can be a total
time suck because there is no right
answer of it uh one of the issues we had
at lunch directly was we sell both to B
to B and B to C
so these are totally different markets
sometimes with different mental models
and we also had this kind of existential
talk about are we B2B or B to C
uh what happened was our first attempt
at pricing was we tried to go cheap and
cheerful
uh we had a
click through where you could go and
sign up with a credit card easy peasy
don't need sales people
um what happened for us is that
absolutely nobody wanted to use our
click-through agreement
uh everybody wanted to talk to a
salesperson everybody wanted some sort
of Custom Contract
and I was a little annoyed by this to be
honest I was like you know kind of like
please just just use our nice credit
card thing
uh
and what I did to try to dissuade people
from you from wanting custom contracts
was I said well
if you want a Custom Contract we're
going to charge you a lot more
uh thinking that this would scare people
off
uh people are like great Custom Contract
us it was like shoot
uh and that was when I started using my
my Infamous phrase that the engineers
teams ago out which was I should have
asked for more money
um if you're in an Enterprise sales
cycle
people expect you to ask for money
people are paying for a premium service
they're paying for a premium Ela they
expect it to be higher
uh and the Insidious thing is that they
also expect it to go to procurement and
get knocked down by 10 percent
so if you don't ask for more money out
of the gate you're actually kind of Miss
selling yourself
so
under pricing can be as bad as
overpricing in my mind because it also
then pigeonhills you
uh so in the early days I did all the
sales and I didn't really know what the
product was worth at the time
I also was really shy I was really
really shy engineer
so I would ask for 29 or nine dollars or
two dollars if you can afford it
um so we've literally had some contracts
on the books that were for nine dollars
a month
and the the idea was that over time
these customers would hopefully start
upgrading and pay us more money
uh what happens if you have a customer
that is paying you 29.79 a month
is that you have anchored them for life
that this is a product that is worth 79
a month
so no matter how much you have other
customers who are now paying a lot more
on getting true perceived value out of
it if you have 79 a month customers they
don't want to move up at all and they
have a budget for that and that's what
they want to pay
so there's no right answer
uh I just encourage you all at your own
startups to think about
what value are you providing to
customers
what is our perceived value for that
and if you have any hopes that people
will automatically start paying you more
money uh it's very rare
people will pay what they anchor at
always keep creating category so when
launch directly started in 2014 there
was no such thing as future management
how do I know that because I made up the
word feature management
uh I made it up because I'd had this
background in Portal management and
content management and I'm not very
creative of a person so I was like what
do we do we manage features feature
management
um the reason why I wanted to be called
feature management is at the time people
are doing feature flagging feature
toggles uh and these made it sound like
a toy
like if you say I'm gonna pay money for
feature toggles people are like well
that's just a Boolean you know that was
literally the quote that we got in uh
Hacker News why would anybody pay
anything for a Boolean
so we were trying to up level and move
it to feature management
uh the other reason why we wanted to be
feature management is back then this is
a very different world
um people were trying to compare us with
optimizely which was a pretty entrenched
company at that point
uh optimizely for those who didn't know
had come out of a y combinator and their
cell was that you could do on the Fly
experimentation
a b testing
so whenever we started trying to compete
head-to-head with optimizely it's just
totally flopped
uh they had a nice wysiwyg
interface and they sold to marketers
we sold the developers but if we got in
a sales cycle against them it just
completely disintegrated
uh the other thing we found was that
people were experimenting a lot less
than everybody thought so my own
background had been I'd been at TripIt
where I had experimented heavily my
co-founder had been in atlassian and
he'd also experimented
what we found when we got out into the
real world we're trying to sell in 2014
and 2015. was that people really weren't
experimenting as much as we'd hoped and
they were just struggling with big sick
releases
so we did this big pivot uh into feature
management
what we found now in 2023 is that
finally there is enough momentum in the
market that experimentation is viable
people who have reliable releases are
able to do experimentation
so we were able to keep creating a
category
but we had to get some beach heads in
first
refreshing values
uh how many people here have written
down values
awesome
uh so one of the things we did when we
moved from a seed company to a company
is we actually wrote down our values
when you're eight people you just kind
of know your values
you all eat lunch together every day
you know what's happening
when we got our a round we knew that we
were going to hire more people and we
decided to write down our values uh so
my co-founder and I did a survey of the
eight of us
and asked what our values were
and from that we kind of distilled it
down and we thought we did a pretty good
job uh so there were things like learn
and grow which was a big one for me if
you're not making mistakes you're you're
not learning uh respect for each other
our customers our community
but then you can kind of see when we ran
at oof when we were doing our values
because we had this last one which was
work us out life
and our literal thought at the time was
this is a little clunky but we have
other things to do right now
uh we'll just leave this be
and over time
over the next three to five years this
value of work is that life became a
little
problematic
and that what our intent had been was
we want to have a company where you know
you're not working 80 hours a week we
want to have a company where you have a
sustainable Pace where you can have kids
uh you know my co-founder had another
kid or engineer had two more kids
we wanted to be a place where you could
you know have a life but still get stuff
done
what happened with this work is not life
value was that people started
weaponizing it of we don't have
deadlines I don't owe my other teams
anything
or I don't really have to work very hard
at all
I was like no this is this is this is
not Tim ferriss's four hour work week
you know we we owe our customers
you know we owe other teams we got it we
got to do more work
but in a sustainable way
uh so I actually after five years uh I
decided that one of our actual annual
objectives was going to be to refresh
our values
and this time we hired a consultant and
that was great uh again this is the the
way to get leverage uh when you're eight
people you could do a survey of your
company very quickly when you're 500
plus worldwide you actually want to
consult it who could come in and
interview people run focus groups and
get real input
um one of the most interesting things
was
when we did this survey about 90 of the
company loved our old values they didn't
want to change
I was the one that wanted them to change
I want them to reflect the company that
we were
uh so we did this big project and we
changed the value of work is not life to
work impactfully work sustainably
and I think it was a big success
but don't be afraid to change values
and also that like I said the mistake I
made was
I don't know if it was a mistake
it was just having a value that wasn't
quite right and the longer that time
went by
it just kind of didn't sit right more
and more and more
all right
so
I talked a lot about culture about
making money
about building a company and scaling
I really want to reinforce that there's
no right Playbook just play pages
uh you know a lot of the tactics that
worked in 2015 2016 2017
uh might not work now
but other hand tactics that didn't work
in the past can work now uh so real
example from launch Berkeley is
in the early days we were experimenting
with cold outbound emails you know
traditional bdr activities
uh the we had these nicely written
emails and they went out and the issue
was absolutely nobody understood what
feature management was at all
uh so just nothing resonated uh we
finally just terminated the campaign
because
uh I was I at the end I at the time was
being the AE and I would just take a lot
of calls from people that wanted to have
an agile consultant I'm like no that's
that's not actually what we do
um the one success we did have out of it
was we sent a cold email to somebody at
Microsoft
and he said this is the greatest thing
I've ever heard of
uh can you build a connector to visual
studio and can you come talk at
Microsoft build
and I said yes
uh the other thing he said is uh we
really want to show that we're startup
friendly can you get a booth at
Microsoft build
and at the time our marketing budget for
per year was thirty six thousand dollars
a booth was about forty thousand dollars
uh so I said that's kind of outside of
our budget he said we'll give you the
booth for free
so from that one cold email we got
a wonderful relationship with Microsoft
and a free Booth uh their signage was
very nice
so this was a play that we ran that had
a very limited result but worked out
and then three years later we'd we could
ramp up and have an actual bdr team and
reach out to customers because people
had knew more what we are and we had
more space in the market
so I really encourage everybody if you
if you're interviewing or thinking about
your company it's tempting to say you
know I want to run the Box Playbook
you know or I want to run the launch
Darkly Playbook or I know that deal
spoke earlier today I want to run the
deal Playbook
the right Playbook is a bunch of pages
that you're carrying out of other
startups about like what should my
pricing be what should my culture be
like what what Market should I go after
and you got to reassemble them for
something that works for you
what's that
uh here's a wrap-up slide I'm just going
to quickly run through it
uh past 100
there was a lot of
if you look at it a lot of dip then it
went up
uh be ready for big changes
I can't emphasize this one enough
Revenue has its own funding it's easy to
get wrapped around the axle of what do
VCS care about VCS care about companies
that make money if you make money VCS
will care about you
uh hiring changes over time with all
your time and get leverage executive
career is worth it no right answer for
pricing
uh always be creating a category
uh if you're noticing carefully I tried
to weave launch Darkly into at least
four different slides
um
always always always talk about your
company uh refresh your values
if you need to and again
startups are fun you're gonna make
mistakes but please take some play pages
and have fun with it
uh with that I'm going to turn over to q
a
hello my question is about hiring so
first of all you want to hire people who
already done something that we want to
achieve but at the same time if they've
already done this why they should be
joining you so for example let's say we
want to hire like head of marketing but
the if they're already a great head of
marketing most likely they will be
interested in moving to the vpu
marketing see a moral in the bigger
companies now
yeah that's a great question so let me
paraphrase it
um
how do you get people to join your
company who have done it
and it's funny this is a constant
thing with me and a one member of our
board
you know it's like well the person who's
you know gone from zero to a hundred
probably doesn't want to join at one
uh you know if they they probably have a
lot of opportunities
uh so what you could do is you can look
for somebody who's maybe the number two
at a role or an adjacent industry
um the Json industry doesn't always work
out
um but you could get kind of somebody
who's just that one step below
but it is
hard because people have this vision of
this perfect person
and you're like you want that perfect
person before they're the perfect person
and you and they become perfect while
they're at your company good question
hello Edith uh thank you for what you've
created uh it's helped us really
accelerate our um
product development process and I like
sneaking in myself and enabling some
features for me to test but my question
for you is um the values that you talked
about and with changing them so
regularly are your values still yeah and
your co-founders still kind of aligned
with the wider company values are they
still in there and how do you roll those
values out with 500 people when you're
refreshing them and making them real
rather than just you know kind of a an
update on a wall somewhere yeah that's a
great question uh so we actually put a
lot of effort into the values uh so the
original values I actually did a session
with all the new hires so every two
weeks to a month I would do a session
with everybody who joined it was off the
record I said don't tweet me don't quote
me
um but you could ask me anything you
want and I would walk through the values
and why they existed
and I love doing this I thought that it
really instilled with the team what the
values were
and it actually it was one of the
reasons why I decided that some of our
values were clunky one of our other
values at the time was teams not
fiefdoms uh were nerds and I got tired
of answering the question of what's a
fiefdom
um
so when you repeat your values over and
over and over again you'd learn what's
clunky what's what's not working
so when we rolled out the new one we
actually had Consultants who helped us
like we did a town hall we did focus
groups we did a lot there I don't want
to spend too much time on but it was a
deliberate effort of making sure they
weren't just words on a wall
uh even things like hey are they easy to
remember
and do we have examples of them
I think your next
thanks uh enjoy that talk um so my
company search pilot is in the it has
the exact problem of the category
creation that you're talking about we're
trying to do SEO a b testing uh I'd love
any tactical examples you have or things
that worked or didn't work
on the path to successfully creating the
category that you've done yeah I mean
just everything
um
yeah so
uh uh the the advantage we had was that
we targeted the developers and what I
learned was there wasn't a lot of
technical content out there about what
we did so like uh simple articles that I
thought were kind of throw away I would
get a ton of hits uh you know like I
wrote something like the top 10 ways you
could feature flag
and that got some traction I looked at
with the number one hit for feature
flags at time was it was feature flag so
the worst kind of technical debt
um so I wrote a rejoiner called feature
flags are the best kind of technical
debt and submitted it to qcon
um
I did a podcast
I think podcasts are a little
oversaturated now but at the time there
just wasn't much out there
uh just constant constant constant
everything you can
to get the word out and then um
like our engineers at one point we
assigned them an article in every Sprint
I was literally like you know part of
your Sprint is not just checking in code
but also writing about it and one of
those articles about data database
migration is still a really good article
that seven years later gets a lot of
hits
I I could talk about this for hours
appreciate it thank you
so thank you for your great talk um my
question is also surrounding hiring so
you mentioned you hire different type of
people at different stages of growth and
I was wondering what from your
experience are the typical threats what
you're looking for in a 20 million plus
ARR business
uh sorry could you repeat that so a 20
million plus ARR business what are the
specific types of people you're looking
for at that stage from your experience
yeah so one of the screening questions I
I would ask is what's the smallest place
you've worked at and what do you like
and not like
and that was pretty good at saucing out
what people actually like the different
stages at 20 million you have at least
basic processes
um you have departments you don't just
have one team you probably have
functional leaders so people who are
comfortable with that if they say hey uh
I still want to be in a 10 person team
that's not going to work when you're at
20 million unless you're probably not in
a SAS business
thanks for that and I'd like to
understand if you're I guess technical
requirements for your sales people
changed over time as you grew yeah it's
funny so I referenced that um one of our
most successful sales people and he's
still with the company by the way does
not have a technical background
um but what he did was he just was
extremely willing to learn on the Fly
and ask questions and then he never
talked down to customers
so he was always just very empathetic
um you know the the I can say this is a
engineer Engineers could be kind of
dismissive and technically sometimes and
that's not a good look for a salesperson
um you know if a customer doesn't
understand something it's your job as a
salesperson to educate them not not to
not to lecture them
values with your co-founder on um
sorry help me I'll misquote it but uh
work is not life uh how this is not one
I struggle with all or at least think
about all the time the world you have to
be more and more agile today I think in
SAS and software we all know like
there's so many competitors things are
faster and what have you learned and
balanced that on the way to 100 and I
think the views have gotten even more
polarizing right I meet more really
young first-time Founders now that
literally are working seven days a week
and want the most intense cultures and
on the other hand I think during
lockdown a lot of folks worked even less
maybe a lot of a lot of folks started
working 15 20 hours a week
um so what have you learned on that
journey to 100 and how to make that work
and but be competitive because you had
to win in a competitive category yeah
well thank you Jason
um so I think my intent was uh so I had
been in startup since the.com era and
I'd been that person that worked you
know 80 90 hours a week I remember
sleeping under my desk because the BART
had shut
and it's it's not sustainable
um it leads to a lot of burnout it leads
to people it's not doing their best work
is the other thing I learned that you
know I was working more hours
and I would come back and look at my
work the next day and I had made so many
mistakes
you know I was an engineering at the
time and I did some work that ended up
getting patented which is great so clean
technical writing was really key
and if I was like in this brain fog I
wasn't doing great work and the other
thing that would happen is if you get a
bunch of snippy people who are working
on little sleep they start getting very
snippy with each other
so it's not a productive environment you
think that you're working more you're
really getting less done
uh so what we were trying to build was
this thing where you could do your best
work uh and definitely there were some
weeks where we were working 80 90 hours
but those were kind of these Peaks and
valleys of like um you know I talked
about how we did the Microsoft build
conference you know at the time we're an
eight-person company so all the
engineers like came and ran Booth with
me
you know and I could ask them to do that
because I'm like hey this is a one-time
thing you know or getting stuff off the
ground but if we'd done that every
single week like I know how much work
goes into conference
and see you have to balance asking your
team to go up there and then saying like
hey there's going to be this other week
where it's going to be a little less
hectic
hi uh firstly as a woman in Tech I have
to say your story is really inspiring
being a technical founder and growing
the company like you did so thank you
um secondly obviously following the 2021
series defunding when you think about
the future growth and next stage of
growth for your company what are your
thoughts
um when it comes to thinking about a
possible IPO in the future
uh
I think it's just like everybody else uh
it's one path for the company
um
what I always told the company is it's
just one step in a journey
uh you know you can go up on stage and
ring the bell
and then you still have to run a company
in and do a lot of work
um so it's just a step in the journey
where I've seen it backfiring companies
is when they get too wrapped up in this
one event
and then you know life continues after
it you still have customers
but uh I think you you you hit on some
interesting things of really going from
a self-service plg Motion in the early
days and people everyone wants to do plg
they think it's a cheat code like uh
there's so many folks that God sales got
so expensive I spent all the money in
2021 I'll magically turn on plg these
three initials it sounds like you really
went the other way very early from
customers and what did you learn about
some of the fallacies of plg fallacies
of self-serve Beyond just pricing but
that was very interesting as well
um
I think at least in our early days uh
what I discovered was that people
weren't buying a product so much as they
were buying
uh
a belief that the company would help
them
you know uh so I remember I went to an
early sales call at Circle CI who was
actually friends with us
and they asked me a couple questions
answered
um I see the CTO also answered I was
like well what what why did you need to
do this they're like oh we just wanted
to know that we could trust you
um you know it's a lot of sales is is
Trust
uh so the reason why plg didn't work for
us very much of the early days since we
realized that we were a new category
uh SAS was still a little risky and
people really needed to feel like they
could trust us
uh I think and I I crib this from
another talk so I forget which one
also
the belief that SAS is cheap and
cheerful and something that's 29 a
credit card is being challenged that now
like chat SAS can go for hundreds of
thousands of dollars and at that point a
CFO does want to get involved and that's
not something that could be very plg
um you know you can run a let me say
there's this false economy uh people
still love to do trials people like to
see the software people like to know
that it works for them so like the old
Enterprise Scare Tactics of you have to
sign a contract even install it don't
work
um but if people are going to go live in
production they do want to have some
sort of sales uh motion to know that
there's a company behind it to know that
there's something they can call when
they need help
cool um and maybe one other interesting
thing you said in the talk if I get
another one um we talked about the AE
that had come from Twitter that was
curious and thoughtful and the
customer's like it was able to succeed
without a technical background but to
take that let's put how many folks in
the early days of launch Darkly maybe
phased how Technical and I'll put
Technical and air quotes did the sales
team need to be a lot of folks struggle
with this for b2d how technical they'd
be in a lot of folks in vertical SAS
struggle on a variant of this which is
domain expertise right I'm selling a
deep Environmental Compliance product
and my reps need to know how this works
and it's it's a very interesting
question because I don't think the
answers are are obvious so what did you
learn about domain expertise being
technical
um
so I it's funny because I I do have an
engineering degree my co-founder has a
PHD in CS so I would say we were both
considered technical
uh
but when we started hiring our first
salespeople
I remember
telling them that they were an expert in
what launcher did they were trusted
advisors and that nobody knew as much as
they did about launch Berkeley and that
really helped them with the Boost of
confidence of hey I'm here to help the
customer
I don't have to understand everything
about what they do but I need to be able
to understand how launch Darkly works
with them and that helps slot it in of
I'm not here to lecture I'm here to help
God so you did all the first 20 sales
Executives on the team
did they did they need to be able to
speak with enough confidence to a VP
event or CTO how did they overcome that
hurdle uh I from my perspective I I
think about it more simply which is most
VPS avenge
and ctOS they won't suffer fools like
they smell a fool in the sales process
and they just they have an allergic
reaction to someone that doesn't under
but most sales reps cannot they have to
find a way to speak and work at that
level without having that skill set so
how how smart did those first 20 have to
be or special
so um over time but it's Jason's
conference so I'm going to answer this
one
um
it's a mix I mean the the thing this is
about no right Playbook is launch Darkly
was creating this field so there weren't
people out there that were experts in
feature management
you know it was like we were creating
feature management so we had to train
the sales people and how do you talk
about feature management
um the first 20 came from a mix of
different backgrounds
um some were from traditional I'd say BD
uh companies like New Relic
um some we got from more uh apps like uh
you know from App Analytics
uh so they had to at least know the
basics but of you know what is an SDK
and what is it what does an engineer do
but they most important was really just
again
figuring out how to slot that into a
customer's workflow and as you said uh
VP engineering they don't they don't
like fools
um so being in a non-dismissive way
where they can work together
I'm out of time uh this was really fun
uh if you have more questions I'm happy
to talk more especially if it's about uh
tactics for category creation because
they have like 10 more things I want to
say now thanks
[Applause]